# UOttawa-Honours-Project
This repository contains work that was completed during a summer funded research project (Natural Sciences and Engineering Research Council - Undergraduate Student Research Award)  in 2018. It is also continuing as an Honour's Project which will eventually be submitted to the faculty of Science upon completion. 


# BIM4920 Project codes 

> Recent advancements in sequencing technologies have made it easier to identify both rare and common genetic variants in the human genome. Along with these sequencing improvements, genetic association studies have become more prominent and are used to test for association between genetic variation and a phenotype of interest such as a disease state. One prospering field of genetic association tests are kernel-based association methodologies. These methodologies first require specification of a kernel function, which outputs a map that describes the degree of genetic similarity between pairs of individuals; many kernel functions have been proposed with strategies ranging from scoring genotype similarity to tree-based approaches. Then, using these maps, a variety of different kernel statistics can be employed to measure the strength of association between genetic similarity with a trait of interest. Due to the rapid expansion of this field, there has been no study that has described and compared the performances of all these different types of kernel-based association statistics in conjunction with the different kernel functions. 
